[Music]
east africa tanzania
we are in the savannah on lake iasi with
the hazards the last real hunter
gatherers their
subsistence economy remained prehistoric times and
their dna also indicates it
we are witnessing a group hunt
with bows and arrows poisoned an animal
he was hit and fleeing but the poison
with fun on the arrow he has in his
body in a few minutes will have its
effect
will make him collapse if he escapes sight there
in saab and they know how to find his
traces
it is a question of stalking him
meanwhile the  reinforcements follow the
footprints are of a species of antelope
found and a raw and will eat in many
[Music]
as codol is said in their language the
language and the azab and with its pronunciation
snaps it is considered the
oldest language of man as  call
the animal you just caught
[Music]
square b does not practice any form of
agriculture or breeding
if men hunt women
harvest  or spontaneous roots fruits
helped by their digging sticks
these also date back to prehistoric times
here the women are extracting
wild melons and the plant that produces them
is called in their language the woman
hoes and practically on par with
the man with the safe harvesting the
community  a percentage of proteins
even higher than that which a
man brings when he is young and if the
woman has two boyfriends and then
chooses the most suitable for marriage, she
can separate and on the initiative of
marrying the couple lives in
her community a single community a  about
five families to which are
added friends and relatives in constant
movement placed today are in all
1500 under rock shelters there is a
surprising housing continuity that has
lasted for hundreds of thousands of
years archaeologists have found it by
finding tools by peter former fans  li
continuity that persists today that these
shelters are used by the
azzate as you call go
or  k inn è ne and you good columbine and you
leave
angelo camele and you habash water water
and to the same same online and online or
not who thinks that the azab and are the
direct descendants of the first homo
sapiens sapiens than to them  once they
came from the men of millions of
years ago discovered 50 kilometers from here
in the gorge of aldo ai to demonstrate
the African origins of man.
they
the rest of the world were led
by geneticists of names being the maryland
the males are specialists in the search
of the honey produced by various species of
robe wild bees that build in the
branches
[Music]
to climb the gigantic baobab
a sort of ladder is created  pegs
their feeding spares no one
in the cavity there is a nest of
unfortunate hornbills vg the honey is often
consumed all on the spot
and in short, the only food that can not
be taken  at base camp shared with
the others always a
strictly masculine delicacy
[Music]
it is thought that the clicks of their
tongue are the first form of
spoken language that served to
coordinate footballers during the
hunt
these hypotheses are supported by researchers from the
University of  stanford
and in fact the whistles and pops
used by the hunts are
similar to the noises of the branches moved by the
wind do not make the animals suspicious the
plant from which the poison is obtained grows
on the shores of the lake and ias a
salty basin that dries up in the
dry season the plant is called pangea one
[Music].
]
[Music]
have no private property in the
witches' goats, the mild medicinal plants are
democra  tically managed by everyone without the
need for experts who would place themselves on
a higher step
[Music]
the arrows coincide with
geometric designs that are the signature of every
hunter so both an animal is
centered the arrow the void you
always know  that it was the arrows intended
for the birds have the wooden point of
large but miter viazza b
the nearby shepherds from toga are supplied the
strongest metal points pots cloths made
of iron come from a
village of farmers the alkaloid
obtained from the boiling of the
woody parts of the plant of the poison is
minced and kneaded ready
for application an arrow thus treated
also a buffalo a giraffe collapses
within 15 minutes until the beginning
of the twentieth century them azab and
even the elephants
of prey hunted this system  uses everything
is skinned macerated on the spot the
hunter lit a black fire himself
a part a rich barbeque I have the liver
and a  Other organs can be eaten
raw if the animal had been
bigger they would have sent them field
near the carcass to eat every
part of it including the marrow of the bones but
the most important thing is that the
cut meat will be brought to the base camp to
be divided with  all the skin will serve
as a mat the tendons as a string for the
bows as in a perfect picture
of prehistory men carry
meat on their shoulders we are witnessing a
behavior that was crucial for
the evolution of man to bring
large quantities of food to the camp
man needed to move with
his upper limbs free, finding
the upright position more advantageous
and it is important to remember that the
division of food and organized hunting
are at the origin of the spirit of
cooperation and of human sociability.
meat from
you remains nori canvas
the meat is placed in the cool in the
bells of branches and leaves of typical
abit  actions and form of glu of the assad
are minimal because the field is
moved several times a year based
on the availability of water, prey and
spontaneous plants
the fire still lights up as it
was in ancient times by rubbing a
stick that heats the dry seeds of
a grass plant  which also serves
to smoke habits borrowed from the tribe
of eri cultured riis indeed it is already reported
by the first explorers who meet to
get up at the end of the nineteenth century
[Music]
women also smoke
but as a pastime they often dedicate themselves to
making necklaces and bracelets
using vegetable beads  who
also wear males the hunters
have just caught a baboon and a
cuckoo of a local form was
hit with a precise shot alliaz I
really like the dear of monkeys if it
were not so it would not be understood
why man became the species  the most
determined and successful of the savannah
this happened thanks to its strong
competitive spirit towards the other
species ch  and it happens to them they are as
ruthless towards animals
as they are united and in solidarity with each other this
is their adaptation to the environment so it
must have been in prehistoric times
here they are sharing the
baboon's brain equally after breaking the
skull with a stone precursor in the
manner  of the ancient hominids
[Music]
now time thank you for the good
hunt of the day
[Applause]
[Music]